This hand, this knee, and this head are
all small feats of engineering decades
in the making. And together, they're
about to take a massive leap for-
forward.
Oh, dear.
Humanoid robots have exploded [music]
out of the lab and into the real world
of late. Not always on the best footing.
But, I'm not just here to show you funny
robot videos for the next half hour,
even though I could
easily.
>> What's up, Reez butt?
>> Because behind silly hats and dancing is
a [music] very serious, very expensive,
and very unproven bet that AI-powered
robots could one day [music] transform
labor as we know it.
>> The interest in humanoid robotics has
been there for a long, long time. What's
changed, of course, is now we see that
it's viable to commercialize this and
start really applying some good business
models.
AI clearly plays a large part in this.
>> The hope is in cracking the code of
physical AI, taking specialized
artificial intelligence and putting it
in a body with sensors, [music]
batteries, and actuators. Very expensive
and technologically complex actuators.
>> [music]
>> It's a paradigm shift that could set
humanoids up to become a
multi-trillion-dollar market by 2050.
But, for these massive figures to be
realized, it won't be about party tricks
or dance routines. It'll be about work
[music]
in homes, in hospitals, in factories,
especially [music] factories.
>> When you really work with robots, you
realize how challenging it is. There is
a lot of what I sometimes call humanoid
hype out there.
>> Like a lot of hype coming from the most
influential figures in the tech
industry.
But, hype doesn't build a supply chain
or rewrite the global labor market. To
do that, you need [music]
Well, let's get into it, shall we?
>> [music]
>> This [music] robot runs on AI.
Well, sometimes.
For this [music] demonstration, filmed
in 2025, Neo needed some help from real
humans and was operated remotely by a
man named Turing.
No, not that [music] Turing. But, don't
worry. We'll get to that later.
>> Looking beautiful, Neo. Did you hit your
head?
You okay?
>> This particular [music] humanoid is made
by a company called 1X, a robotic
startup founded by [music] this actual
human, Bernt Bornich.
>> So, this is Neo. This is the gamma
version. So, this is what we've been
doing the in-home tests among employees
with. This is the one that's doing my
laundry. And this is the last, let's
call it like the last engineering
version. The version that we're working
on right now that's about to go into
production is the unit that will go into
the first customer homes.
Essentially, the entire behavior of Neo
is [music] AI in the sense that it takes
images, forces, tactile, and in general,
all information that it has about the
world
>> [music]
>> and there's a big neural network and out
comes the actual motor commands all the
way down to the forces and torques that
it's exerting to be able to do
everything from balance and walk to
doing manipulation.
>> Unlike a traditional robot that's
programmed to do a specific task the
same way every time, [music]
a robot that uses AI should, in theory
anyways, learn [music] to do things over
time in unpredictable environments.
It's sometimes called physical AI,
[music]
a category that besides humanoids
includes other general intelligence
robots and driverless [music] cars.
Basically, it's anything that uses
motors, sensors, cameras, and AI models
to make sense of the world around it.
>> [music]
>> We are seeing a very clear correlation
between the amount of data and how many
different tasks we can do and how
successful we are at these tasks.
[music] And that is really the beauty of
how AI has changed products because
there is no longer this limit where you
need to
>> [music]
>> write some specific code for every task.
Everything is just data.
>> Let me introduce you to our robot.
>> 1X [music] is just one of many humanoid
robot companies that have burst onto the
tech scene in recent years.
>> You're not taking this wet towel from
me?
>> Sure, [music]
I'll get the laundry started.
>> The frenzy comes down to two little
letters, [music] which come with big
checks.
AI
>> The past few [music] years we've seen
explosive interest in development of and
investment in AI, and a lot of people
are seizing on this moment as a [music]
way to work on all kinds of related
things, including robots.
>> It's a packed scene with billions of
dollars in investments in 2025 alone,
and companies globally racking up huge
valuations.
>> People are betting big on humanoid
robots because very high-profile people
involved in the world of humanoid
robotics are talking it up.
>> People like this guy, Jensen Huang.
>> There's so many humanoid robots here,
and the AIs that they need [music] are
physical AIs.
>> Chip makers like Nvidia are excited for
their chips to power the brains [music]
of these humanoids.
>> It needs a brain, and Nvidia has a chip
for that that can [music] go into the
robot itself. Then they have the
software. Nvidia has largely a monopoly
for AI GPUs that go into data centers
>> [music]
>> for training large language and other AI
models. So, they have a stronghold there
because [music] just like generative AI
tools, humanoid robotics models,
real-world models are also trained using
the same technology.
>> We just announced a new deep
collaboration with Boston Dynamics.
They've got some very exciting
>> Other AI and tech giants [music] like
OpenAI, Google, and Tesla are also
betting big that there's a lot of money
to be made by taking AI off a screen and
bringing it into the real world.
>> And then, you have Elon Musk who talks
[music]
endlessly about humanoid robots.
>> I think everyone on Earth is going to
have one. They're going to want one.
>> His projections are even more, let's
say, far-fetched.
Elon Musk has said that Optimus, Tesla's
own humanoid robot, will be a product
that can bring in $30 trillion of
revenue annually. [music]
>> And with numbers like that, there's
hype. [music]
>> You increasingly see them showing up in
ads. You see them [music] at tech
conferences. There are lots and lots of
videos of them. [music] Sometimes you'll
see them operating in person, but they
might be like tethered to something. So,
I feel like you're both seeing progress
and you're also seeing this sense of
it's not quite there yet.
>> [music]
>> This is my students in our lab here. We
call it the AutoLab for automation lab.
And so, students are working on various
projects. And [music]
we have a number of robots in here.
Two-armed robot, we call it bi-manual.
>> Professor Ken Goldberg at UC Berkeley
has been interested in what makes robots
work for a long time.
>> In last few years, there's been a lot of
excitement about the potential [music]
of artificial intelligence, specifically
with the breakthrough of ChatGPT, which
is a huge paradigm shift in the field of
AI. And so that's the speculation, what
is the GPT [music] moment for robotics?
>> But here's the [music] thing, large
language models or LLMs like the kind
behind ChatGPT are more book smart than
a robot smart.
>> In ChatGPT you're looking at a string of
words [music] and then you're trying to
generate what would be the next
appropriate string of words that goes
with that.
>> ChatGPT and other large language models
run on well, mostly language.
Think of it like having access to a
massive library of trillions of words,
photos and videos from the internet.
But a robot doesn't just generate words,
[music]
it has to create motion.
>> In a robot what we need to see is a
string of images, a video, and then we
need to see a string of motions, of
commands that go to the robot arms to
get it [music] to do the right thing.
>> To do that it needs data to learn from,
a lot of data.
>> When it comes to you humanoid robots,
data is so so important. Without [music]
data a system that relies on AI doesn't
know anything.
You want a robot to do something like
folding laundry for instance, you're
going to have to have a ton of
information about how laundry is folded
so [music] that it can learn, see
patterns in that data, how do you pick
up a piece of fabric, [music]
um do you use articulated fingers which
are extremely difficult to build, and
how do you also hold on to things
without squishing them?
>> Robots learn from experience. [music]
And here's the problem, almost none of
that physical experience has been
recorded.
>> No one has [music]
captured the motions of robots that go
with the inputs that were [music]
generated coming from a camera.
So, we have a gap, what I call the robot
data gap.
>> That gap is a challenge and an
opportunity, especially for the ones
betting on physical AI. More data means
better AI.
The need for data for robots is so big,
companies are rushing to create
libraries made of both real and
artificial synthetic data.
>> So, people today are trying to collect
this data to be able to train robots.
The first one is simulation, to be able
to simulate environments and robots
moving in them.
>> Think of it like creating a
hyperrealistic environment the robot can
learn in. It's superpower is scale.
Thousands of robots in thousands of
worlds all learning at the same time.
The problem is virtual worlds and
virtual robots can lack real-world
detail.
Another way to train humanoids is
harvesting existing video of the real
world.
>> We do have huge amount of videos on
YouTube and other places that have show
people manipulating things.
>> But,
>> it's very difficult to get the full
three-dimensional structure of a scene
from a two-dimensional video.
>> There is one option for delivering real
human interactions in real-world
conditions.
Teleoperation. Where VR glasses and
stylish outfits can turn these robots
into a very expensive puppet.
>> So, there's someone behind the scenes,
behind the curtain, who is controlling
two arms, moving them around, and as
that happens, the video images and the
motions of the robot are recorded, and
that [music] provides data. But, that's
very, very slow. But, there are farms,
people out there doing that as we speak.
>> Teleoperation has been criticized for
its use in demonstrations to drum up
excitement and money. But, is is a
powerful training tool.
Beyond teleoperation, there's another
option to let the robots just learn on
the job.
Goldberg calls it the flywheel.
>> As it's working, it's collecting data
from its images and its motions. Then
use that data by filtering it to train a
larger model.
And eventually, that new model becomes
better than the original model.
>> Nailing an AI model and a training data
set that works is paramount for any
robotics company hoping to make it in
the humanoid biz.
>> Neos a robot for the home.
We want every part of Neo and to be
inviting and made of materials that you
would want to have around your family or
in your living room.
We're using soft cover and this fabric
for the face covering.
>> At 1X headquarters, teams design,
build, and train humanoid prototypes.
Like many places, 1X uses a combination
of training techniques, but when it
comes to AI, things change fast.
When we visited 1X in 2025, they relied
on a combination of tools to train their
humanoids, including teleoperation and
human input.
Hi Turing.
>> [music]
>> Since then, 1X says it increasingly uses
something called a world model to train
and run their humanoids. And it's
pulling from many of those
data-gap-filling [music]
tactics.
The video here on the left is generated
by the model. It's almost like a future
vision of what the robot should do. And
on the right [music] is the robot
completing the action.
Similar to other AI video creation
tools, the world model pulls from a vast
library of images and video to generate
a visualization
>> [music]
>> of an action.
Each time it generates the prediction of
an action, it can learn from the
resulting real-world action [music] and,
in theory, help improve those
predictions with every generation. Kind
of like a flywheel,
>> [music]
>> remember?
Of course, the actual goal of all these
models and data is to get robots out of
the lab and into the real world where
they can continue to improve. And when
it comes to doing that, there's one
place that's been faster than the rest.
>> [music]
>> This is the first world humanoid robot
games taking place in an old Olympic ice
skating rink in Beijing.
Look at all these humanoids.
Running,
jumping,
dancing.
Competitors here are gathered from all
over the world to put humanoids to the
mechanical test.
>> I think the games are really
interesting. There's tons of really cool
events that you don't really see
normally. Uh it's very different, very
unique, very special.
When I first met our robot, when I first
interacted with it, it was a little
scary cuz, you know, you have this like
very heavy piece of machinery just
running around and walking around next
to you. Then you try to like keep your
distance and stay away from it. But as
I've gone to know it and work with it,
I've developed a sort of like connection
with it.
>> [music]
>> These games, which involve everything
from boxing to football matches to
yes, work,
are part of a large push in China to
dominate the humanoid and AI robotics
industry.
>> [music]
>> China's unique interest in robots has a
to deal with government for the most
part. [music]
The fact that
uh, this year is strategic priority
back in 2015, the Made in China 2025
plan had mentioned robots along with EVs
and semiconductors as future growth
drivers. So, a lot of money has been
poured into this area and continues to
be so.
>> [music]
>> In 2025, China pledged 1 trillion yuan,
about 140 billion US dollars, to promote
[music] the advancement of emerging
technologies, a big part of that being
robotics.
>> [music]
>> That kind of support has helped produce
140 Chinese companies, all making
humanoids. A number that has continued
to grow so much that officials have
warned of a potential bubble.
>> [music]
>> Still, China is currently dominating the
humanoid robotics market, much like
they've done with EVs.
Companies like AgileBot, UBTECH, [music]
and Unitree, among others, shipped the
most humanoids out of any country in
2025.
That's down in part to some serious
chops when it comes to manufacturing
cheaply and quickly,
>> [music]
>> which is a good thing if you're trying
to get robots out in the world fast.
>> So much of the electronics industry has
its supply chain from the the sort of
circuit level,
uh,
throughout China. And they have scale,
scale means
better economics,
and it means ability [music] to move
quickly.
>> It's really vertically integrated, just
like with EVs. They have a lot of
companies that make components [music]
for these humanoid robots, whether it's
sensors, AI chips,
>> [music]
>> batteries.
The fact that they're able to source a
supply of the components for these
robots.
>> That advantage in scale may come in
handy. China already leads the world in
the deployment of industrial robots as
it races against a shrinking workforce.
But for engineering, training, and
investment to pay off, they're going to
have to do something more than
backflips. They're going to need to get
a job. Sorry, robots.
>> I am an economist, and I am uh studying
the well-being implications of
technological change.
Technological anxiety and fear that the
technologies are going to take over our
jobs is nothing new.
What do we need to think about before
deploying humanoid robots at scale would
[music] be worker involvement in the
process. So, how these robots will be
deployed would have huge implications
for the quality of of work that [music]
that people will have.
>> Robots aren't new. They've been in
factories for decades.
>> They're very good at performing routine
tasks and physical tasks.
>> Tasks like welding, painting, and
assembling parts.
>> But they are not multi-purpose, and
that's where the humanoids come in.
>> Basically, a humanoid robot is designed
to do the tasks that humans can do. It's
estimated that almost 2 million
manufacturing jobs in the US alone might
go unfilled by 2033.
But if humanoids are going to be part of
closing that gap, they need to actually,
well, move and problem-solve like a
human [music]
safely alongside people.
And right now, that's only happening in
a limited number of very controlled
pilot tests run by some very [music] big
companies.
>> For example, the BMW is uh currently
running a pilot and is reporting early
data.
>> Other big [music] names testing these
robots include Amazon and Hyundai.
These trials are crucial when it comes
to figuring out where humanoids work and
where they don't.
They also provide, yes,
>> [music]
>> data to fuel development while things
like technology and regulation catch up.
>> We started with pilots in humanoids
about a year ago.
>> This is Patrick [music] Kelleher. His
company is one of many testing out
third-party humanoid robots in their
warehouses.
>> We have been working with robots for the
last 10 years and we are at the
forefront of piloting humanoids in our
warehouse operations and it really is
fascinating to see the new technology
take foot in production in the warehouse
environment.
>> GXO has found some cases that humanoids
might be useful for, like [music] say,
working in a freezer.
>> We're able to deploy the humanoids in
that environment where they can really
work for an entire battery life
completing tasks being directed by
somebody who is outside of the freezer
and getting work completed without
putting our teammates in an
uncomfortable situation working in that
cold environment for a long time.
>> There's still a lot they're not great
at.
>> The humanoids so far are not perfect.
They damage product. They drop product.
They may put product back in the wrong
location.
It is so important that our teammates
are working alongside of them to do
that.
There is corrective action and audits
done to make sure that the activity done
by the humanoid is done accurately.
>> Humanoids still face a number of
engineering challenges that can create
serious bottlenecks in a warehouse.
They're slow, for one. They have a
limited battery life. And picking up a
box or handling an object, things that
we take for granted, require dexterity.
It's something humanoids, which move
using motors and actuators, have a hard
time replicating.
>> We do not see humanoids in the next
couple years taking away many of the
tasks that our teammates perform. The
tasks are too complex
and too important from a quality
perspective to go entirely to humanoids.
And it's not really understood yet what
the return on investment is going to be
based on the finalized technologies that
are coming out.
>> Places where humanoid robots might be
deployed first, like factories and
warehouses, are already built for
industrial robots. But putting them in
environments for people, like hospitals
and homes, might prove to be the bigger
test.
>> In manufacturing, you have a very fixed
production process. You can shield off
human beings, and you can let the
humanoid robot
>> [music]
>> perform.
While in a
hospital setting, it's a semi-structured
environment. [music] There are protocols
in how processes should be done and how
patients should be cared [music] for,
but still there are so many
uncertainties that can arise. In fact,
it's about, [music] yeah, life and death
type of situations,
and the cost of making a mistake are
very, very high.
>> So, will humanoids one day overcome
their technical challenges, recoup
investments, [music]
and become indispensable companions
folding our laundry, watering our
plants, and building our cars? Or just
be a novelty giving way to robots of
other shapes and sizes?
>> I've been in this field for 40 years,
and it is fascinating to me [music] how
much it has had a resurgence again and
again over the years. And I'm thrilled
about that. I'm excited because I feel
that this field has got many years of
questions [music] and research that
needs to be done. So, in some sense, I
don't want to sound discouraging. I'm
very [music] actually optimistic about
the future, but I think it's important
again [music] to just be realistic about
the time frame.
>> In the meantime, I'll leave you with
this.
A humanoid robot waving to [music] you
from a balcony as a drone pulls slowly
and dramatically away.
>> [music]
>> That feels like a decent way to end.
For now.
>> [music]
[music]